English documentation about LDAP interaction (#11223)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/reference/configuration/index.md

### Configuring LDAP authentication

One of the methods for user authentication in {{ ydb-short-name }} is using an LDAP directory. More details about this type of authentication can be found in the section on [interacting {{ ydb-short-name }} with the LDAP directory](../../concepts/auth.md#ldap-auth-provider). To configure LDAP authentication, you need to define the `ldap_authentication` section.

Example of section `ldap_authentication`:

```yaml
auth_config:
  #...
  ldap_authentication:
    hosts:
      - "ldap-hostname-01.example.net"
      - "ldap-hostname-02.example.net"
      - "ldap-hostname-03.example.net"
    port: 389
    base_dn: "dc=mycompany,dc=net"
    bind_dn: "cn=serviceAccaunt,dc=mycompany,dc=net"
    bind_password: "serviceAccauntPassword"
    search_filter: "uid=$username"
    use_tls:
      enable: true
      ca_cert_file: "/path/to/ca.pem"
      cert_require: DEMAND
  ldap_authentication_domain: "ldap"
  scheme: "ldap"
  requested_group_attribute: "memberOf"
  extended_settings:
      enable_nested_groups_search: true

  refresh_time: "1h"
  #...
```

> Parameter | Description
> --- | ---
> `hosts` | A list of hostnames where the LDAP server is running.
> `port` | Port to connect to the LDAP server.
> `base_dn` | The root of the subtree in the LDAP directory from which the user entry search will begin.
> `bind_dn` | Distinguished Name (DN) of the service account used to perform the search for the user entry.
> `bind_password` | Password of the service account used to perform the search for the user entry.
> `search_filter` | Filter for searching the user entry in the LDAP directory. The filter string may contain the sequence *$username*, which will be replaced by the username requested for authentication in the database.
> `use_tls` | Settings for configuring the TLS connection between {{ ydb-short-name }} and the LDAP server.
> `enable` | Determines whether an attempt will be made to establish a TLS connection [using the `StartTls` request](../../concepts/auth.md#starttls). When this parameter is set to `true`, you should disable the use of the `ldaps` connection scheme by setting the `ldap_authentication.scheme` parameter to `ldap`.
> `ca_cert_file` | Path to the certificate file of the certification authority.
> `cert_require` | The level of certificate requirement for the LDAP server.<br/>Possible values:<ul><li>`NEVER` - {{ ydb-short-name }} does not request a certificate or any certificate is accepted.</li><li>`ALLOW` - {{ ydb-short-name }} requires the LDAP server to present a certificate. Even if the provided certificate is not trusted, the TLS session will still be established.</li><li>`TRY` - {{ ydb-short-name }} requires the LDAP server to present a certificate. If the provided certificate is not trusted, the establishment of the TLS connection is terminated.</li><li>`DEMAND` and `HARD` - These requirements are equivalent to `TRY`. By default, the value is set to `DEMAND`.</li></ul>
> `ldap_authentication_domain` | An identifier attached to the username to distinguish users for the LDAP directory from users authenticated using other providers. The default value is `ldap`.
> `scheme` | The connection scheme to the LDAP server.<br>Possible values:<ul><li>`ldap` - {{ ydb-short-name }} will connect to the LDAP server without any encryption. Passwords will be sent to the LDAP server in plain text. This value is set by default.</li><li>`ldaps` - {{ ydb-short-name }} will make an encrypted connection to the LDAP server using the TLS protocol from the very first request. To successfully establish a connection using the `ldaps` scheme, you need to disable the [`StartTls` request](../../concepts/auth.md#starttls) in the `ldap_authentication.use_tls.enable section: false` and fill out the certificate information in `ldap_authentication.use_tls.ca_cert_file` and the certificate requirement level in `ldap_authentication.use_tls.cert_require`.</li><li>Any other value will default to `ldap`.</li></ul>
> `requested_group_attribute` | The reverse membership attribute in groups. Default is `memberOf`.
> `extended_settings.enable_nested_groups_search` | A flag that determines whether to perform a request to obtain the entire tree of groups that the user's direct groups belong to.
> `host` | The hostname where the LDAP server is running. This parameter is deprecated. Instead it use the `hosts` parameter.
> `refresh_time` | Defines the time when an attempt will be made to refresh user information. The specific update time will fall within the interval from `refresh_time/2` to `refresh_time`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `hosts` | A list of hostnames where the LDAP server is running. |
| `port` | The port used to connect to the LDAP server. |
| `base_dn` | The root of the subtree in the LDAP directory from which the user entry search begins. |
| `bind_dn` | The Distinguished Name (DN) of the service account used to search for the user entry. |
| `bind_password` | The password for the service account used to search for the user entry. |
| `search_filter` | A filter for searching the user entry in the LDAP directory. The filter string can include the sequence *$username*, which is replaced with the username requested for authentication in the database. |
| `use_tls` | Configuration settings for the TLS connection between {{ ydb-short-name }} and the LDAP server. |
| `enable` | Determines if a TLS connection [using the `StartTls` request](../../concepts/auth.md#starttls) will be attempted. When set to `true`, the `ldaps` connection scheme should be disabled by setting `ldap_authentication.scheme` to `ldap`. |
| `ca_cert_file` | The path to the certification authority's certificate file. |
| `cert_require` | Specifies the certificate requirement level for the LDAP server.<br>Possible values:<ul><li>`NEVER` - {{ ydb-short-name }} does not request a certificate or accepts any presented certificate.</li><li>`ALLOW` - {{ ydb-short-name }} requests a certificate from the LDAP server but will establish the TLS session even if the certificate is not trusted.</li><li>`TRY` - {{ ydb-short-name }} requires a certificate from the LDAP server and terminates the connection if it is not trusted.</li><li>`DEMAND`/`HARD` - These are equivalent to `TRY` and are the default setting, with the value set to `DEMAND`.</li></ul> |
| `ldap_authentication_domain` | An identifier appended to the username to distinguish LDAP directory users from those authenticated using other providers. The default value is `ldap`. |
| `scheme` | The connection scheme to the LDAP server.<br>Possible values:<ul><li>`ldap` - Connects without encryption, sending passwords in plain text. This is the default value.</li><li>`ldaps` - Connects using TLS encryption from the first request. To use `ldaps`, disable the [`StartTls` request](../../concepts/auth.md#starttls) by setting `ldap_authentication.use_tls.enable` to `false`, and provide certificate details in `ldap_authentication.use_tls.ca_cert_file` and set the certificate requirement level in `ldap_authentication.use_tls.cert_require`.</li><li>Any other value defaults to `ldap`.</li></ul> |
| `requested_group_attribute` | The attribute used for reverse group membership. The default is `memberOf`. |
| `extended_settings.enable_nested_groups_search` | A flag indicating whether to perform a request to retrieve the full hierarchy of groups to which the user's direct groups belong. |
| `host` | The hostname of the LDAP server. This parameter is deprecated and should be replaced with the `hosts` parameter. |
| `refresh_time` | Specifies the interval for refreshing user information. The actual update will occur within the range from `refresh_time/2` to `refresh_time`. |
```
